adress issue #69 (`list()` and `attach()`) (#68)
ExaWorks/job-api-spec: specification.md

```java
List<String> list()
```

Return a list of job IDs which are known to this executor instance.  The
returned list MAY contain IDs of jobs which were not submitted via this
instance, and MAY NOT contain IDs of jobs which have been submitted by this
instance, but are finalized and purged already.  IDs for any job which has been
submitted via this instance and which is not yet in a final state MUST be
returned.  The returned IDs can be used to (re-)attach a job instance to the job
via the `executor.attach(id)` call.  This implies that the call SHALL only
return those IDs to which the callee can attach with under currently used
authorization.

<a name="jobexecutor-attach"></a>
```java
Job attach(String jobID)
```

Return a job which is attached to the backend job identified by the specified
ID.  The returned job instance MAY have an `UNKNOWN` state until the
implementation asynchronously obtained information about the actual job state.
The method MUST raise an `InvalidJobException` if the job ID cannot be used to
uniquely identify a job.  The `jobID` can either refer to the ID returned by
`Job.getID()`, which represents the ID used by the J/PSI implementation, or to

> the native job ID used by the LRM backend.

Reviewer: > The `jobID` can either refer to the ID returned by `Job.getID()`, which represents the ID used by the J/PSI implementation

Is J/PSI assumed to be  stateless (that was an implicit assumption I just realized I was making)?  If so, how do you envision this functionality could be implemented?  If the J/PSI client stores some J/PSI ids to a file, restarts, and then tries to re-attach to the J/PSI ids in that file, how is the J/PSI library/runtime supposed to connect the old J/PSI ids to the underlying LRM's IDs?  Hopefully that question makes sense.

Reviewer 2: Right. We should perhaps also think forward on this particular issue, such as when talking to a remote service, in which case we need to also store and endpoint together with the LRM ID.

Author: Throwing this in here as reference points (not advocating one or the other):
  * DRMAA uses the underlying LRM job ID.  A job is created by the equivalent of `executor.submit()` and only returned once it has a job ID
  * SAGA uses the form `[LRM_ID]-[JOB_ID]`, where `LRM_ID` is the url to contact the LRM, and `JOB_ID` is the native job ID in that LRM instance.  SAGA jobs can have an undefined ID until the LRM assigns one to the job,
  
I am a bit worried that having two different job IDs may be confusing.  

Stateless: I did not make that assumption, but it is tempting.  But indeed, it makes consistent mapping to native IDs a bit difficult.  

> ... remote service, in which case we need to also store and endpoint together with the LRM ID.

Our `attach` method is on the Executor, and to get the executor, you would need to know the underlying LRM ID, so the native job IDs would be presumably unique in the scope of that LRM.  So yes, one needs both pieces of information, but it does not necessarily be part of the job ID.

Reviewer: > I am a bit worried that having two different job IDs may be confusing.

I share that worry.

> SAGA uses the form [LRM_ID]-[JOB_ID], where LRM_ID is the url to contact the LRM, and JOB_ID is the native job ID in that LRM instance. SAGA jobs can have an undefined ID until the LRM assigns one to the job,

That makes sense.  I would be fine with requiring as an argument to `attach` either `[LRM_ID]` or `[LRM_ID]-[JOB_ID]`.   I have reservations about adding to the standard the ability to just take in a `JOB_ID` without some other stated mechanism in the standard for recovering the underlying `LRM_ID` from a `JOB_ID` after a restart of the J/PSI client.  There are a bunch of ways we could do that, and I think we should open an issue to discuss that further.

to `null`.

<a name="jobexecutor-list"></a>
```java
List<String> list()
```

> Return a list of job IDs which are known to this executor instance.  The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return a list of native job IDs which are known to this executor instance.  The
```

Do we want to call out explicitly that it is native IDs that are returned? Have we defined what a native ID is in the spec yet?

returned list MAY contain IDs of jobs which were not submitted via this

> instance, and MAY NOT contain IDs of jobs which have been submitted by this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instance, and MAY be missing IDs of jobs which have been submitted by this
```

The `MAY NOT` initially read to me like "the list IS NOT ALLOWED to contain IDs of jobs which have been submitted by this instance"

> instance, but are finalized and purged already.  IDs for any job which has been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instance but are finalized and purged already.  IDs for any job which has been
```

The returned list MAY contain IDs of jobs which were not submitted via this
instance, and MAY be missing IDs of jobs which have been submitted by this
instance but are finalized and purged already.  The returned job IDs MUST be
uniquely identify job in the scope of the `JobExecutor` instance and thus in the
scope of the backend that `JobExecutor` is bound to, but should not be assumed
to be unique beyond that scope.

IDs for any job which has been submitted via this instance and which is not yet
in a final state MUST be returned.  Information for jobs in final state may get
purged by the backend, and the implementation MAY purge that information also.
The native IDs for those jobs thus MAY NOT be returned by this call, even if the
application still holds handles to those jobs (and could thus retrieve the
native job ID directly).

The returned IDs can be used to re-attach a `Job` instance to the backend job
via the `executor.attach(job, nativeJobID)` call.  This implies that the call
SHALL only return those IDs to which the callee can attach under currently used
authorization.

<a name="jobexecutor-attach"></a>
```java

> Job attach(Job job, String nativeJobID)

Author: No, it does not - that's a leftover from a previous iteration, thanks for catching it.!

```

This method will accept a job instance in `NEW` state and a native job ID.  The
executor will attach the Job instance to the backend job identified by that

> native (backend) job ID.  The method will return immediately, the `JobExecutor`

Reviewer 2: That's a bit of a run-on. Perhaps "... will return immediately and the..."

Author: Done

will collect job state and meta data asynchronously.  A callback registered on
the Job MUST NOT fire before the implementation completed the attachement -- at
that point the job will have a valid `JobStatus`.  If the
implementation is not able to attach the job (because it cannot verify
the job ID, or the job information has been purged, etc), the job will
be moved into `FAILED` state.

The method will raise an [`InvalidJobException`](#invalidjobexception)
if the passed job is not in `NEW` state.  Any job status, resource spec

> etc. which are set on the passed `Job` instance will be discarded.

Reviewer 2: Sorry for nitpicking, but should we mandate that this be so or warn that this could be so?

Author: IMHO we should mandate, and I changed the text: MUST raise, MUST discard.  If we don't discard any conflicting attributes, we end up with an inconsistent set of information which may change over time, which is not good.  We could also mandate that the application did not set any attributes on the Job instance before calling - that would work for me also and might be cleaner?

Author: @hategan : ping

Reviewer 2: Sorry. Yeah, I see your point.

I'm considering two separate scenarios:
1. in which users may want to provide a persistence layer that fully restores job objects to a live state. To do so, if the executor does not guarantee that the job spec/info will be restored, the user must.
2. users can still set the wrong info after attach() leading to the same problem; so I don't think the issue is fully enforceable unless we somehow make certain properties to be write-once.

I'm writing this because I've kinda ran into such situations. But please consider this conversation resolved from my perspective (aka. press the "Resolve conversation" button unless you want to discuss further).

Author: >     2\. users can still set the wrong info after attach()

I don't mind giving the user that freedom (and responsibility),  So, let's leave as it is (`MUST be NEW, attach MUST discard`), and reconsider once it turns out to be problematic (which I doubt).  Either way, thanks for the nitpick.

implementation when the Job object is constructed. The ID is guaranteed
to be unique on the client machine. The ID does not have to match the ID
of the underlying LRM job, but is used to identify `Job` instances as
seen by a client application.  The ID can be used to later re-attach to the

> job with `Job j = executor.attach(native_job_id)`.

Reviewer 2: This is inconsistent with the signature above. I would suggest simply linking to the relevant method; it will also make it more robust in the future should the signature change again.

Author: Thanks, fixed.

<a name="job-getnativeid"></a>
```java
String? getNativeId()
```

Returns this job's native ID as assigned by the underlying LRM.  The ID will
only be available once the job has entered the `QUEUED` state - the returned
value will be `null` otherwise.  The returned ID can be used to communicate
with the LRM out-of-band, and also to later re-attach to the job with

> `Job j = executor.attach(native_job_id)`.

Reviewer 2: See above comment.

Author: dito
